CIS-1010 Channel List States (#2187)
GetStream/stream-chat-swift: docusaurus/docs/iOS/uikit/components/channel-list.md

}
```

> ### Loading states

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Channel List States
```

> You can opt to show an empty, error and loading view by setting the following flag to true in the `Components` config:
> 
> ```swift
> Components.isChatChannelListDefaultLoadingStatesEnabled = true
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can opt to show an empty, error and loading view by setting the following flag to true in the `Components` config:

```swift
Components.isChatChannelListViewStatesEnabled = true
```

> This feature is disabled by default. By setting this feature on, you can use show views for each state with no extra code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is disabled by default. By enabling this feature, the StreamChat SDK will handle the channel list view states automatically for you.
```

> This feature is disabled by default. By setting this feature on, you can use show views for each state with no extra code.

Reviewer 2: Clarify that the old loading view is in place when this feature is disabled.

| Empty | Error | Loading |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![Empty View](../../assets/channel-list-empty-view.png) | ![Error View](../../assets/channel-list-error-view.png) | ![Loading View](../../assets/channel-list-loading-view.png) |

> You can further customize or add your own implementation of an empty, error or loading view by subclassing `ChatChannelListEmptyView`, `ChatChannelListErrorView` or `ChatChannelListLoadingView` respectively, add your custom views as properties and overriding our custom life cycle methods `setUp()`, `setUpAppearance()`, `setUpLayout()` and `updateContent()` to configure your custom views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can further customize or add your own implementation of an empty, error or loading view by subclassing `ChatChannelListEmptyView`, `ChatChannelListErrorView` or `ChatChannelListLoadingView` respectively.
```
No need to add additional information, at this point in the documentation the customer should be already familiar with our custom lifecycles

```swift
class CustomChannelLoadingView: ChatChannelListLoadingView {

    lazy var customLoadingView: CustomLoadingView = {
        // You implementation...
    }()

    // ...

    override open func setUp() {
        // Set up your custom views.
        // Don't call super.setUp()
    }

    override open func setUpAppearance() {
        // Set up the appearance of your custom views.
        // Don't call super.setUpAppearance()
    }

    override open func setUpLayout() {
        // Set up the layout of your custom views.
        // Don't call super.setUpLayout()
    }

    // ...
}
```

Also, don't forget to set you custom implementation in the `Components` class.

```swift

> Components.chatChannelListLoadingView = CustomChannelLoadingView.self

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Components.default.chatChannelListLoadingView = CustomChannelLoadingView.self
```

> ```

Reviewer: I think it is better if we provide 2 real examples here. 

1. Let's see how you can customize our error view:
Show a simple example of changing colours, or removing some text / changing the image of the error view.
2. Let's see an example of how you can totally replace our error view with your own.
Then here we show the example above, where we don't call super.

In the end, we should say that they need to replace the views in the Components config. And it is worth showing what is the name of all these 3 components.

| Empty | Error | Loading |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| ![Empty View](../../assets/channel-list-empty-view.png) | ![Error View](../../assets/channel-list-error-view.png) | ![Loading View](../../assets/channel-list-loading-view.png) |

You can further customize or add your own implementation of an empty, error or loading view by subclassing `ChatChannelListEmptyView`, `ChatChannelListErrorView` or `ChatChannelListLoadingView` respectively.

Let's see how you can customize our error view:

```swift
class CustomChatChannelListVC: ChatChannelListVC {

    override open func setUpAppearance() {
        super.setUpAppearance()

        channelListErrorView.backgroundColor = .red
        channelListErrorView.layer.cornerRadius = 20
        channelListErrorView.titleLabel.text = "Data unavailable"
        channelListErrorView.titleLabel.textColor = .black
        channelListErrorView.retryButton.setImage(.init(systemName: "hourglass.circle"), for: .normal)
    }
}
```

![Empty View](../../assets/channel-list-custom-error-view.png)

> Also, let's see an example of how you can totally replace pur error view with your own implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's see an example of how you can totally replace our error view with your own implementation.
```

```swift

> class CustomChannelLoadingView: ChatChannelListLoadingView {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class CustomChannelListLoadingView: ChatChannelListLoadingView {
```

    lazy var customLoadingView: CustomLoadingView = {
        // You implementation...
    }()

    // ...

    override open func setUp() {
        // Set up your custom views.
        // Don't call super.setUp()
    }

    override open func setUpAppearance() {
        // Set up the appearance of your custom views.
        // Don't call super.setUpAppearance()
    }

    override open func setUpLayout() {
        // Set up the layout of your custom views.
        // Don't call super.setUpLayout()
    }

    // ...
}
```

> Also, don't forget to set you custom implementation in the `Components` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to set your custom implementation in the `Components` class:
```

```swift
Components.default.chatChannelListLoadingView = CustomChannelLoadingView.self
```

> You can set your custom views for the channel list loading states when configuring your Components instance by replacing the following views as shown above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set your custom views for the channel list states when configuring your Components instance by replacing the following views as shown above:
```
